We were at this pie chart component,
which is currently hard coded at using
these four slices with
these fixed percentages.
And we wanted to make it flexible so
that whoever uses this pie chart component
can set the percentages and
colors through these custom properties.
So how can we do that?
Let's take it step by step.
So the first value is easy,
we can just replace the 20% with value1.
And then for the second value, we do need
to add it with the previous one, because
color stop positions are absolute, not
relative to where the previous stop ended.
So we could do something like this.
But it starting to get a little unwieldy,
especially once we start adding
fallback all over the place.
Which we need to have,
because we need to be able to only
set a few of these properties, not all.
And it gets even worse when we get to
the next one where we would need to repeat
this entire thing,
To get to the actual 30% that we have.
This is not scaling well, is it?
So one way we could make this code
a little bit more manageable is,
just like we've seen before, we can set
these fake private custom properties.
Value1 would just be our actual
value1 with the fallback, but value2,
Would be, Value1,
The one that actually has a fallback,
plus the value2
property that the user of
our component specified.
And then the good thing is that this only
maintains two terms for each addition.
Whereas, previously, the third term had
three terms, the second term had two
terms, and we would get to five
terms when we got to value5.
So here we can just add value2 with
value3 because it's a cumulative sum.
So that's all we need.
And we can actually specify all
five at this point, why not?
And let's increase these as well.
So now we can go here, and
instead of all of this,
we just have our value1.
And here we don't need this
entire calc expression,
we can just specify the value2
that we've already set internally.
Here we said we specify value3 and so on.
And let's add the other color
stops as well to allow up
to five slices,
since we've already defined them.
And right now they all have the same
color, so let's space them out a bit.
And notice, by the way,
at some point I said hsl is not
a very good way of specifying colors.
I mean, it's definitely better than
RGB because it's more human friendly.
But notice the perceptual uniformity
problem that I mentioned earlier,
these last two colors still
differ by 25 hue degrees.
But notice how similar they look,
compare that to this color and this color.
These look quite different but
they also differ by 25 degrees.
All of these colors, this red, this
orange, this yellow, and these two greens,
all of these differ by 25 degrees but
they are not equally spaced, are they?
That is one of the problems that
LCH will solve as an aside.
This is already useful, we can already
use it to display various kinds of data,
but we want to make the colors
customizable as well.
So we have a color3 variable here, but
we want the entire range to be
possible to specify color1,
color2, color3 up to 5,
either all of them or just a few of them.
So we still need to have fallbacks.
So what we could do is
we could go here and
do color1 and
then have this as a fallback, oops.
But it's getting a little
bit unwieldy as well.
So we're gonna specify them as
separate variables too, I mean,
this doesn't have the cumulative problem
that we had earlier with the values.
But it's still making
this gradient quite long,
especially if we start
converting all colors to this.
So let's do the same thing.
So color1 would be,
This, And
then we'll just add five of these.
And here as well.
And then all we need to do
here is use these underscored
properties that already have
the fallbacks built in.
Which makes our gradient
much easier to read.
And we need to actually increase
the index here, there we go.
Alright, yeah, cuz we're setting
all of these to the same color.
So let's change the hues as well and
now we should go back to what we had.
So now this works but
this is quite unwieldy, isn't it?
And we would also need to
customize the background.
Notice that here we have
a final background layer,
which allows us to
specify what we want for
any leftover percentages.
So right now if the percentages we
specified don't add up to a full 100%,
we show this final gray slice.
So we allow a variable
to specify that as well,
and we use gray as a fallback.